---
title: VPI (Versioned Programmable Interface)
---

<blockquote class="embedly-card"><h4><a href="https://medium.com/the-node-js-collection/netflixandchill-how-netflix-scales-with-node-js-and-containers-cf63c0b92e57#.svecljpvr">#NetflixAndChill: How Netflix Scales with Node.js and Containers</a></h4><p>It wasn't too long ago that Netflix was just a DVD company. When Kim Trott, director of UI platform engineering at Netflix, started at the company about nine years ago, the company was just beginning to stream videos and had a catalog of only 50 titles.</p></blockquote>

After reading this excellent article about now Netflix handles scaling & versioning, and also from my own experience, it's safe to say that writing a versioned API is a pain. Supporting older "legacy" clients is tedious and often leads to unexpected behaviours & bugs. You end up with split URL paths like `/v1` & `/v2`, and having to update clients (especially clients following an app-store model where there is no guarantee the user will update the app) becomes impossible since the URLs are fixed.

<!--more-->

My attempt to solve this problem with an [ExpressJS](https://expressjs.com) middleware that allows you to semantically version the incoming requests accordingly, and offers a solution to control your logic across API versions 😎 Rather than sending versions from your clients & having complicated if-statements throughout your codebase (`IF version >= 100 AND version < 200`) instead you have a simpler way to compare versions.

The idea is to default clients to a specific version, e.g. `1.2.5` could be the latest API version, but then allow clients to specify the API version they expect via a HTTP header, e.g. `X-API-Version: 1.0.5`, which means your backend can respect older versions whilst introducing breaking changes safely for newer versions.

```js
var express = require('express');
var v = require('vpi');

var app = express();
app.use(v.verify());

app.use('/users', v('>= 2.0.0', require('./v2/users')));
app.use('/users', v('>= 1.0.0 && < 2.0.0', require('./v1/users')));
```

The idea is you can use [Semver](https://npm.im/semver) expressions to push certain clients down particular routes.

And you can use `v` with other middleware functions too:

```js
app.use(v('>= 2.0.0', middleware.v2version));
app.use(v('>= 1.0.0 && < 2.0.0', middleware.v1version));
app.use((req, res) => res.render('some-page'));
```

As the first example shows, the `verify` function is required in order to ensure that `req.v_version` will be set to a valid version, either one specified by the client or the maximum version.

There’s also a `satisfy` method to perform comparisons within routes themselves, like so:

```js
app.use(function (req, res, next) {
  res.data = {
    page: 1,
    count: 12
  };

  if (v.satisfy(req, '>= 2.4.2')) {
    req.data.total = 42;
  }

  next();
});
```

And beyond that, `v` makes no assumptions on how you structure your middlewares & routes, especially with regards to
versioning, that’s all up to you! You know what’s best for your API!

----

- Check out the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/jdrydn/vpi)
- Or view the [NPM package](https://npm.im/vpi)
